A dandy dentist fleeing a shotgun wedding with an unwanted bride needs help escaping the Bad Breath Brothers, who are both her kin and the local bully boys.  

A Mormon missionary is looking for a tracker to take her deep into Cheyenne territory. She is on a 'mission from the Almighty' to find a 'prophet among the red warriors'.  

A young US Cavalry scout, who is chasing after an escaped chicken, which is running wildly down the street, slams blindly into one of the PC's. Peals of laughter come from 5 more troopers across the street, standing around a buckboard filled with supplies.  

A drunken racist bully threatens a family of black settlers in a covered wagon. A deputy and a few townsfolk see the encounter, but do nothing.  

A well-dressed gentleman gunslinger stands in front of the Western Star Saloon and spins dual custom 6 shooters in a demonstration of speed and dexterity while announcing a shooting and fast draw competition to be hosted by the saloon in a week. The winner gets $1000.  

A city slicker greenhorn dressed as a cross between a plains cowboy and a Mexican gunslinger is promoting a half-breed Sioux boxer.  

A dandy lawyer from back east looking to hire some experienced gun hands with a lack of morals  to engineer an 'accident' that he will profit greatly from. The target is a child who stands to inherit a large sum of money.  

A stage coach guard struggles to carry two large bags marked U.S. Maill to the post office inside the general store. He complains loudly about the railroad and the Chinese stealing his job and ruining America.  

A nervous-looking, young ranch hand buying supplies, ammunition and guns at the General Store. He's jumpy and tries to keep to himself. He's buying supplies for the BarT Ranch.  

A group of 6 buffalo soldiers riding on top of a stage coach carrying mail and payroll for Fort Pierce.  

A priest looking for carpenters and workman to help him rebuild a small chapel in the badlands that was burnt down by bounty hunters.  

A dandy gambler walking a bad-tempered rottweiler who hates the smell of tobacco.  

A railroad executive sits in an expensive carriage guarded by 4 men while overseeing the hooded vigilante riders searching for his rival, who they intend to lynch. 

-------------------

a flying train descends, surrounding around our heroes like a snake, then bandits pop out of the train and demand their money or their lives, if the battle starts going poorly. the train then flies off leaving behind any remaining bandits, they chase after the train for a ways and, seeing they've been abandoned, surrender and/or beg for their lives.(u/sirkibblesnbits )

While walking down the road, the heroes see a pair of disembodied legs walk up to them,invisible hands try to riffle through their pockets and belongings. if confronted, the would-be thief admits that he thought he was fully invisible and that the potion that snake oil salesman sold him must have been watered down.(u/sirkibblesnbits )

a caravan of goblins, in blood stained clothing too big for them, wander by in covered wagons. They say that they are merely halflings off to some nonsence location that they had heard of at some point. they attack any traveler they see that is clearly unarmed but will pretend to be halflings if they see any signs of weapons or combat prowess, will also run/drive away at speed if any of their number is killed (u/sirkibblesnbits )

a pair of thieves in a secluded spot near the road are loudly arguing how to they are going to split the money while are trying to open a stolen safe with a stick of dynamite and, unless intervened, will neglect to distance themselves from the explosion. killing them both but leaving the safe open, with its contents intact (my favorite encounter in red dead redemption 2)

a dwarf in his underwear using a rust monster to pull his wagon by using a iron dagger on a fishing pole, if interacted with, the dwarf stops the beast by smacking it in the head with a wooden club knocking it unconscious. if asked he'll gladly vent about what happened. after an exhausting day in the mine, a rust monster had emerged from the depths of the cave it ate everything it could get its antennae on. it also ate the chain keeping his horse tethered. so when he awoke all his metal possessions were turned to rust, his horse was long gone, and a rust monster was munching on what was left of his armor. so he sneaked(snuck?) the wagon into position and then before it could object tied up the beast and stuck the dagger that he keeps under his pillow on a line and into it's face and the rest is history. he is too proud to ask for assistance but will hesitantly accept any charity offered. when he set off he puts some smelling salts to the antennae of the rust monster and continues on his way. (u/sirkibblesnbits )

A lone stranger, clad in trench coat and ten-gallon hat, stands in the middle of the road with the sun at his back. he stops the party saying “Now, how’s about you hand over any yer valuables.” If the party refuses, a pair of draconic wings block out the setting sun as they unfurl from his back. “I wasn’t askin” It’s a young adult blue dragon, just come into adulthood, testing out his new powers. The party can fight him, hand their belongings over, or, with the right Persuasion roll (DC 18) convince him to let them join him in a spot of thievin’ and lootin’ ( u/Splashdown119)

Carniverous tumbleweeds. nuf said. (u/thebarberbarian)

An air genasi enlisting the party to help her lasso a twister (u/thebarberbarian)

A nearby gold mine has been taken over by a dao that has enslaved all the miners (u/thebarberbarian)

Wizard duels at High Moon (u/thebarberbarian)

A herd of undead horses has been appearing every night. If you follow them they'll eventually lead you to where they died in battle, and to the artifact that is keeping their restless souls bound to this plane (u/thebarberbarian)

Quest for the legendary Mithril Spurs (u/thebarberbarian)

A herd of cow-sized dinosaurs being driven by kobolds riding velociraptors. They pay you little mind, but are prepared to defend themselves if provoked. (u/ElZoof)

Six gunmen arguing fiercely over who’s turn it is to have Main Street for a high-noon showdown. Any attempt to interfere results on all six turning on the interlopers.(u/ElZoof)

Two strangely dressed humans fiddling with a sleek-looking horseless carriage with doors that look like wings. If questioned, they’re conducting “weather experiments” and will ask you to bring them glowing rocks from a nearby mine. (u/ElZoof)

you spot the legendary jackalope!(u/FirstChAoS)

you encounter the legendary cactus cat!(u/FirstChAoS)

you see a dragon train napper fly off with an entire rain (u/FirstChAos)

The party is traveling between towns on a dusty road. It's nearing dusk, and the party is getting ready to hunker down when suddenly they hear the thundering of hooves! They look around but can't find the telltale dustcloud of whatever person(s) or beast(s) are making the noise. The sounds of the many hooves grow louder, and with them come the sounds of wranglers, tippy ki yaying and yippy ki ohhing, but still no sign of any herd or riders. Coincidentally one looks up and gasps, "Ghost Riders! Ghost Riders in the sky!" (u/LilyWineAuntofDemons)

A railroad tycoon needs some squatters cleared out from his land. Turns out the land is a druidic Grove that's planned to be torn down for the railroad. (u/joetom1992)

Party comes to a town with a bandit problem. In two days the bandits are going to ride in and take the money, one way or another. (u/joetom1992)

Burried beneath the mountain is an ancient evil. It'll stay dormant if left alone, but word is starting to spread about gold in the hills. (u/joetom1992)

An undead stranger enters a saloon, and challenges one patron to drink or draw, i.e. match the revenant drink for drink, or match him in a gunfight. The stranger explains he was hung for killing a man who stole his beer. He was cursed to wander, challenging someone every night. If someone outdrinks him, he can rest. Otherwise, he challenges them to pistols at noon. This revenant must lose one of these contests to find rest. ("Drink with the Living Dead" by ghoultown.) (u/Kronk458 and u/Ljmroper)

They encounter a stranger with an strangely big handgun. The stranger has in gun terms almost giant colt .44 (a bit iron one could say) hanging on his hip and he demands information of whereabouts of infamous criminal Rexas Ted ( u/globaros)

You see an outlaw you recognise from a wanted poster. should you pursue them a thrilling chase ensues. when you capture the outlaw, they reveal themselves to be a changeling who acts as a decoy for the real outlaws (or they do it for the thrill of outrunning bounty hunters). ( u/Eraepsoel)

A shabby travelling carnival has monstrous animals such as as an owlbear and an ankheg, that are ill-treated. If you ask the boss why they aren’t fed properly, he gets angry and tries to have his boys throw you out. ( u/Eraepsoel)

A bar fight breaks out, but just before it really gets going, in walks the town sheriff - a wizard - who calms everyone’s emotions with an enchantment spell. ( u/Eraepsoel)

you find a traveling band of Mariachi kobolds. ( u/nameless88)

you find Cubes McGee, the roughest toughest low-down meanest gelatinous cube in the west. Word is he's been rustling Old Man Withers' sheep. You can tell by all the sheep skeletons floating inside him. He stands 5'8" tall, including the cowboy hat. Don't get too close or he'll slowly eject a bullet in your general direction. ( u/PM_Me_Rude_Haiku)

You encounter a human cowboy lassoing some minor air elementals. ( u/ken_NT)

you find A chromoform (color-changing) dragonborn in the middle of a shootout with a lizardfolk outlaw when a roc, that had been menacing the town, swoops in and starts chasing him. If left uninterrupted the dragonborn manages to slay the roc by collapsing a water tower. “You might say I go wherever whiskeys cheap and hell waiting to be raised. You might say I’m already a piece of hell raised up. Name’s... Rango.” ( u/LordMosnar )

At nightfall some kobolds pop up from the ground, looking around quizzically. They were tunneling to the bank but got lost.

A stranger strides into town through the midday haze. Tall, gangly, face hidden under a wide brimmed hat. He challenges the infamous Snake-Oil Sid, a Yuan-Ti outlaw, to a shootout. Everyone knows the stranger won’t last two swigs of whiskey; Sid outshoots every bounty man that comes to town. When the two meet, Sid empties his crossbow as fast as wind, and the bolts whistle towards the stranger before he even draws his weapon... clanging off the stranger’s metal chest. In the stunned silence that follows, the warforged cracks a mechanical smile, converts his arm into a crossbow, and pumps Snake-Oil Sid’s guts full of iron. ( u/LordMosnar )

There's a strange bank that shows up randomly around the region, never too close nor too far from a given town. The bank owner offers loans to those who venture out to his moving bank at extraordinarily low-interest rates. The twist is likely that it's a Night Hag, who has bizarre methods of determining someone's loan-worthiness. Sometimes she collects a sample of blood, sometimes she simply consults her crystal ball to determine if giving the applicant money now will influence her mysterious long-term goals. I think this works best as a random encounter or rumor - it's best if the PCs don't have a reason to "go after" the lender. ( u/m0dredus )

a coyote appears and takes the dumbest party member on a spiritual journey (Guatemalan insanity pepper not included) ( u/DogmaSychroniser )

you find a man on a horse, his hands are bound and theres a noose around his neck tied to the high branches of a tree. he is surrounded by few dead bodies and more then a few arrows. this bandit was sent to be hung, but before the sheriff could hang him they were attacked leaving only the bandit and horse left. the horse is trying to graze but if that horse moves any further he'll slide off, and the noose will finish the job.(the ballad of buster scruggs) ( u/sirkibblesnbits)

In the middle of the desert, your ears slowly here, a mellow tune in the distance. (Depending on the time of day, the tune is different — morning to afternoon, cheery or tries at least — afternoon to night, a lantern is seen that glimmers with green torch light, and a gothic tune is heard), the tune gets louder and louder, and your eyes wander and you find a satyr, chained to an anchor playing a piano. The sand around him is turning into glass crystals. Coming closer you see that there is more than just a piano, instruments as well. They seem to be instruments of the bards; The Anstruth Harp, Canaith Mandolin, Cli Lyre, Doss Lute, Fochlucan bandore, Mac-Fuirmidh cittern and even the Ollamh harp. Talking to the satyr, you find out his name is Lucy, and that he is bound by a fiend (Erinyes) to play music for eternity, no rest, and that he is bound to these instruments. If a PC tries to take one, they cannot lift it off the ground. You also learned out that Lucy left the Nine Hell’s without acknowledging it, he was a prized composer of music. To unbound him, you need to go to an abandoned church and seek this fiend. Going in, you are teleported into Avernus, without you knowing until you walk out.( u/Gods_Cat)

There's a problem in the area with an ogre wrestling cattle. Not rustling, wrestling. (u/FirstChAoS)

As long as the party is good aligned or has a reputation for being good, whenever they get into an encounter way over their head, a mysterious stranger, in high collared trench coat and widebrim hat slung low, will very rarely appear some distance away and provides covering fire with his revolver. He disappears in a heat haze once the battle is over. In the offchance that he dies in the encounter, the party can loot his corpse to find him a regular looking man, nothing on him but his clothes, a revolver and a note saying "One good turn deserves another" (u/MutatedMutton)

--------------------

1) A journalist named Cornelius Wells is lost. He is clothed a bit like a dandy trying to play the part of a cowboy, and carries more books than revolver rounds. He is from San Franciso and has been hired to write a series of articles on the Taming of the West. He had been accompanied by a group of cowpokes who left him in the night, having stolen his bankroll. He promises the PCs, assuming they act friendly, that if they can escort him safely to the local town that he will have money as soon as he can get in touch with Western Union. If the PCs have stories to tell, he will pay them for good stories. Although Cornelius knows the simple tasks of riding a horse and putting out his bedroll, he doesn't have much experience and easily gets lost.

2) Four cowboys ride into town high in spirits after receiving a month's wages and lookin' to spend them on some real debauchery. They can be easily swayed to part with their money via gambling, boozing or via soiled doves. However when their hangovers are done and their money gone they are as likely to be lookin' as to who "stole" their money as they are to leave peacefully.

3) Horses in town have been going missing after having been left at hitching posts while their riders are in the saloon, an office, bank, store, etc. It's actually a young boy who is surprisingly skilled at convincing the horses to come after him despite his short stature. He is skilled with horses as he has been training as a groomsman all his short life. He takes them to his uncle's farm, who is in on the plot (and encouraged the boy), where he then rides the horses to another town for sale. The boy waits in an alley until someone goes inside a building and while no one is on the street, then runs out, unhitches the horse and leads it off. The boy gets away with it because no one would suspect anyone so young, and if it seems he is caught he merely claims he was admiring the horse and wanted to pet it. Who would suspect an eleven year old?

4-An Indian tribe on the run who have been chased by the US Cavalry over two states so far and are heading for Canada enters the town. They won't attack unless either provoked or they get access to alcohol, and the mayor and sheriff has ordered all sources of alcohol to be locked up until they leave of their own accord.

5-A drunken cowboy is illegally shooting in the air in town and it is up to the sheriff and his deputy to arrest him. They ask for the help of the PCs.

6-the big cattlemen have formed a large mob of hired gunmen to kill the small ranchers of the area, but the sheriff is getting an even bigger mob of townsmen in a mega posse to capture or if need be kill the gunmen and cattlemen.

7-a lynch mob are stringing up an accused murderer from a telegraph pole.

8) A brutal railroad boss has been killed by a stick of planted dynamite, and now there's a standoff between a detachment of national guard and a throng of Chinese workers being blamed en masse for the assassination.

9) A man with a bounty on his head, but he is innocent and scared as *bleep* that his bounty says, "Dead or Alive." He is armed and his extreme nervousness makes him more dangerous than he really ought to be. If brought in he convincingly argues on behalf of his innocence such that good PCs would want to stand up for him. Bad PCs could plug him to protect themselves from losing the bounty if he turns up innocent.

10) A man with a bounty on his head - to be captured alive only - but he's protected by a small gang (number based on the size of the PCs' party).

11) A Bounty Hunter that has gone rogue - he has a Bounty Hunter commission but will break any and all laws up to and including murder if that's what it takes for him to bring in his target. His number one goal is to collect, however, so he will obey laws when absolutely necessary to ensure he will be able to collect. Once he does collect he quickly moves on, knowing that he's very possibly the next to have a bounty on his head after what he tends to pull.

12) A lawman and his posse, hunting down a known fugitive believed to be in the area.

13) A father and-three-sons team. The father has a bounty on his head. The three sons ride into town in the afternoon with their "quarry" and demand the bounty. Knowing that their father will have to be held in the local (poorly protected, one- or two-cell) police office for the night, the boys bust their father out and move on to repeat the scam again. If they for some reason cannot do so, they ambush the Marshall with their father on the way out of town.

14) Two baby grizzly cubs whose mother will be very angry/protective when she shows up.

15) Rattlesnake - sort of like the Western version of a brake check.

16) A former gunfighter-turned pig farmer who is bent on some serious vengeance after some bandits raped and murdered his wife and son. Doesn't talk much though.
 
17) The local telegraph operator approaches the PCs and asks them to check the lines out of town for 'interference'. He suspects someone has been intercepting messages he sends to MacDougal (the next operator down the line) and creating false messages. He has no proof, other than 'It doesn't sound like MacDougal, the signal's too, well, neat!'. He can't leave his post to check, and he doesn't want word to get around. He also can't talk about which messages he thinks are false, they're financial messages to the bank, and he could lose his job if he's wrong.

And, yup, someone is hacking the system. It's a straight forward man in the middle job. They've cut the lines where they pass through some trees. Both cut ends have some buried cables running to a nearby tool shed near the local schoolhouse. The man (well, schoolmarm) in the middle and her team of tiny hackers are intercepting any inquiries about their actions and giving re-assuring messages and also sending false messages about credit worthiness to the bank. The interference is subtle and only operates occasionally, and it just so happens that strange men hanging around the school will draw the attention of the schoolmarm who will chase them away and/or say that the shack was used by some travellers to repair some machinery they broke last week, but they moved on.

If suspicions are raised;
Of course, she's not technically minded, what even is electrickery? Who could have done this? A parent? sob sob.
She found out what the kids were doing and put a stop to it immediately, but didn't want to get them in trouble. sob sob.
But she's just trying to keep the schoolhouse open, sob sob.
If suspected, her job is to cast reasonable doubt long enough for her to send a message with her portable telegraph set to tell the Sheriff that the PCs are wanted for murder in Kentucky, then clean out her bank account and flee.

18) A beautiful and rich heiress has been kidnapped and the PCs need to rescue her from a forced marriage.

19) A group of bad guys try to rob the local bank.

20) A lovely young woman comes to town by stagecoach looking quite concerned. If she can find someone to confide in she will inform them that there are bad men after her, and if it isn't safe here will need to continue out of town, though she doesn't have anywhere to go and very little money to get there. The bad men arrive in town and begin to try to hunt her down quietly. She of course stole their money (likely ill gotten gains), and they want it back, if she can engineer their demise she will playing the damsel in distress the whole way.

21) An old widow woman wants to find the right man to be a husband for her pretty granddaughter before she passes on. To this end she has begun to host parties, dances, charity events, and contests. Unfortunately the wrong man is determined to have her hand and the old womans money. He will quietly eliminate the competition, as apparent accidents if possible, with a bullet in the back when they are alone if necessary, and will work to pin any misdeeds upon another. Ultimately if he is not ferreted out he will simply kill the old woman and force the granddaughter into matrimony.

22) A distraught woman comes to town looking for her missing daughter. She has checked anywhere she thinks she might normally go, the barn, a grove near the home and all around the school she did not arrive at this morning. Folks will gather up and look, but she's no where near, it will take some investigation and tracking to determine a man on horse back scooped her up on the way into school that morning, and trekked out towards the wilderness/badlands/Mexico. If pressed the woman will reveal sadly that the girl's father is a bad and dangerous man (possibly wanted), but she has not seen him in years. He has in fact returned to take his daughter away from the thankless woman that tried to keep her from him. He will do whatever it takes, short of allowing his daughter to come to harm, to make it away with his daughter.

23) A dozen or so desperadoes ride into town and shoot anyone who pokes their head out, then moves to the stores and takes what they want, then moves to the bar and drink and shoot what they want. Players may get shot or not get shot as they choose, of course some of the desperadoes actions may begin to chafe even the most callus of heroes.

24) An old miner comes to town showing off his big new strike, the owner of a larger local mine wants to buy him out, but he won't sell. Others are interested in the old man and his strike as well. A few days later he is found buried in his mine shaft, but alive, he will accuse the larger mine owner, and others as available of having tried to kill him, and will offer a sizable reward to find out who is responsible. Turns out carpenter ants, beams of mine look solid but are hollowed out, if convinced and not dead from accusing the wrong person he will pay out the reward.

25-Some conmen are seeding areas outside town that they legally own with gold nuggets and then selling them for ten times what they are really worth to gullible miners.

26) A small band (party size +2) of normally non-hostile Indians is tracking a lone white man who befriended the tribe, and then made off with a squaw. The squaw is an Indian princess, and the leader of the band is her brother, who is now overly suspicious and hostile towards whites.

27) A good sized heard of cattle seems unattended. Closer examination will reveal crushed cowboys and horses. The Cattle are rabid, and will attack anything that gets too close. They are meandering, but could easily begin to stampede towards a well established watering hole and if they make it there will likely contaminate other cows.

28) A wagon-train made up of almost exclusively woman on their way to marry lonely gold miners. Their trip has been hard, and at some point they were abandoned by most of the men who were supposed to help get them where they're going. The wagon master is willing to offer a dollar a day and meals to anyone willing to lend a hand in getting them where they're going.

29) Two cowboys have learned that they have inherited the prestigious, luxurious Cheyenne Social Club. On their way, should they run into any industrious, strapping young fellows they might be persuaded to part with a small percentage of their generous inheritance should those do-gooders accompany them, protect and support them on the journey, and ultimately end up as their employees. Little do the cowboys know that their inheritance is in fact a brothel (per the film, link).

30) A prostitute, posing as a nun, is being raped by four Mexicans. The four will claim they had paid. Per the film.

31) One man accuses the other of cheating in gambling and demands a gunfight at high noon. The other agrees. Of the two of them, however, one is discovered to be a "legendary" gunfighter only after the gunfight is agreed to. So the non-gunfighter shows up to the gunfight sitting on a mule covered in dynamite, threatening to blow up both gunfighters and the whole town if the gunfight goes through. Per the film.

32) A man with an addiction to gambling runs up a massive debt. After he says he's going to the bank/Western Union to get the cash to pay up, he merely skips town.

33) Some toughs insult and rough up the PCs when they ride into town until the inevitable gunfight occurs which causes the PCs to kill the toughs. Then, the local town's representative approaches the PCs and asks them to replace the toughs they just killed whose job it was to keep the town safe from the sort of people who come into town and cause trouble. Per the film.

34) Marshals and federal troops have joined forces and are willing to pay anyone with a gun and that can travel a dollar a day plus expenses to chase down some Indian scalpers. What they don't tell you is that while you're traveling with this posse any crime you commit along the way is punishable by immediate execution.

35) An army payroll wagon comes into town on the night scheduled for a big celebration (pick a holiday) with lots of celebration scheduled. If the PCs don't get the hint to hit it, they are asked to find the guys that did after-the-fact.

36) One man in a bar claims he knows of gold buried under a "certain" tombstone, but doesn't know in which cemetary the tombstone lies. On another occasion the PCs hear of a man who knows of a cemetary where gold is supposedly buried but that after digging for days he couldn't find in which grave it was buried. If the PCs can put the two men together and broker a deal, the gold can be raised. The man who knows which cemetary will give the name of the wrong cemetary then after everyone gets their and he hears the tomb's name he splits to go to the correct cemetary. Per the film, sort of.

37) Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show featuring Annie Oakley and Calamity Jane.

38) Some bushwhackers (Confederate guerilla soldiers who fought a war of attrition in the Old West) struck it rich by hitting a Union salary train, then retired (like Kelly's Heroes). However, that was # years ago and the money has dried up. The bushwhackers have come back together to plan another score so they can retire yet again. The PCs overhear their conversation in the saloon they have agreed to meet at.

39) A small town is set up to do nothing but rob passers through by hook, by crook, or by gun butte to the back of the head, and everyone is in on it from the saloon girls to the sheriff. Once the players are penny and possessionless they will be dumped or run out of town as appropriate. Once dumped the players could run into a group of disgruntled fellows come back to pick a bone with the town, the same bone the players have. Initially they may mistake the players for townies, but if they don't kill each other, these fellows would be happy to have a few more hands, and if the party has lost their firearms as well, they will even loan them some till they can retrieve their own.

40) The player characters are hired by some scared looking bandits. They have successfully removed a safe from the bank. Its not clear what has them so spooked, but they are willing to pay the player characters well to return it before anyone finds it missing.

41)

The remains of an old road uncovered by a sand storm leads to an abandoned desert fort. Its gates swing open and closed on screeching hinges, its battlements empty of all but a flapping piece of cloth that was once a regimental flag. Apart from the encroaching sand, the interior buildings look intact, right down to the belongings of their previous owners. There is some loot to be had here, but if the player characters stay past dark they discover the reason the fort has been abandoned. The fort’s well has been dug through an ancient prison chamber holding a malign evil. Each night the evil seeps from the earth and takes the physical form of anyone or anything that has ever drank from the well. At first it sows mistrust and attempts to turn the player characters on one another. Eventually it resorts to simply eating them. It cannot be killed, only banished. To stop it, its prison must be sealed.

42) Native Americans herding Bison - right towards the PCs! If they run away, the Native Americans are herding the Bison right to a sudden drop off.

43) A group of former Confederates who either don't know the war is over, or refuse to admit it and have turned to banditry.

44) A prototype new weapon is being transported by wagon with minimal escort to "avoid suspicion"/keep a low profile. It is being transported to the West Coast to be fixed to a Naval Vessel there for sea trials.

45) Ghost town, roll D10 to determine why
1-Spanish Flu
2-Gold/Silver rush, then vein ran out
3-Was on a trail that got superceded by a railline on a parallel route
4-Massacre (by natives or Union/Confederate reprisal)
5-Mine tailings contaminated the water supply [1] [2]
6-Coal mine fire that hasn't gone out yet
7-Fire burned down the town
8-Landslide
9-Flood, possibly by a new dam built by the Army Corp of Engineers
10-Purchased by the government for secret reasons, but you probably shouldn't be here (artillery range?)

46) The party comes across a group of drovers leading cattle across the land, one member is badly wounded and they could use a hand, both with the injured individual, and with the cattle. It will become clear that they are not drovers but rustlers, and if the rustlers don't kill you the posy chasing them, and now you, will.

47) A young man all silver toothed smiles, and dual six guns, gleaming ammo on polished leather belts begins to cause trouble with the weakest men in town, the bar where ever he can find easy targets he goads towards a gun fight, he will goad and kill as many easy targets as he can get. He will make it legal waiting till they draw to gun them down, but he's clearly calculating his targets so that he has all safe fights for himself.

48) Eli Lilly, former Union artillery officer, failed in his attempt to run a cotton plantation in Mississippi. You run across him on his way back to Indiana where he plans on returning to pharmacology (where he will subsequently become rich). At the moment he has recently declared bankruptcy and is scraping along (his business partner for the plantation venture ran off with what was left of the cash). Could be run as a snake oil salesman who actually makes decent stuff - if the PCs can figure that part out.

49-a cloud of smoke is seen far ahead. Roll 1 D6 to find out what it is.

1-a train, the smoke comes from it's funnel.
2-A wildfire, moving fast and at a speed that can spook horses if you are not careful.
3-The smoke is in fact a swarm of locusts, able to destroy any crops that it comes across.
4-An Indian tribe has attacked a small town and set it on fire.
5-It's a dust storm. Cover your face for safety.
6-A huge herd of buffalo is coming your way.

50) A professional gambler cheats his way to success against the PCs at the table. By the time someone figures him out, he's already spent all their money on booze and women, but he promises he can pay them back by beating the dupes in the next town over. When completely out of money, he does sleight of hand, from three card monty to more legitimate "street magic".

51) After the PCs have had some success and made a name for themselves, an investor sends them a letter of introduction asking to invest in the PCs and their interests. Once the PCs reply, the "investor" uses their signatures to forge loans in the name of the PCs to this investor, who is using an alias. Inspired by Monroe Edwards.

52) A particularly nervous gent is driving his ox-driven wagon East. He's managed, through social engineering, manipulation and luck to nab a plate that makes official US currency and is heading home to print some counterfeit currency. Thing is, he's never done anything this brave (or clever) before, so he's awfully nervous and showing. If he's threatened he's likely to be mighty dangerous with his pistol - but on account of a quick trigger out of fear, not due to some skill at accuracy.

53) In a particularly dry area, a homesteader has laid claim to the only creekbed/source of water for miles and now sits on it, charging anyone who wants to to fill up their canteen or let their mount drink.
 

54) The Wild West Show has come to town with recreations of a famous shootout, Indian attacks, trick shooting ect. Some bad guys plan to use their coming to town as a cover for a genuine robbery.
 
ikeinthemed
Registered User
Validated User

    Jul 8, 2018 

    #32

55) Three con artists have taken over the town running confidence scams and greasing the local authorities. The locals actually like them because they are nice, helpful, give a bit to help the local people out, work together to make sure no one else elbows in on their turf (in other words, everyone knows they are the only shysters in town, and they make it stay that way). They also focus their cons on strangers and those passing through (and occasionally on those that the whole town considers "deserves it"). Inspired by Soapy Smith.
 
MoonHunter
Game Guru-Thread Shepherd
RPGnet Member
Validated User

    Dec 26, 2018 

    #33

Okay. We have been hanging out with family, friends, and adopted family, this season. One of our more senior folks spends a lot of time in the chair watching westerns. Lots of westerns. I don't know what cable channel that was, but there were westerns TV shows I didn't remember. So I know there is some popularity out there for the genre.

Any more straight up western plots we can do?

If you need more plot, click here for the original 101 Western Plots

57) Railroad Comes

Dillon is an Irish immigrant who settled in the high mountains of California during the Gold Rush of 1849. It is now 1867, and Dillon has a vault filled with gold and a town of his own, named Kingdom Come. Dillon owns nearly every business of consequence in the town; if someone digs for gold, rents a hotel room, opens a bank account, or commits a crime, they will have to deal with Dillon. One of the few profitable enterprises in town that Dillon does not directly own is the saloon/brothel, which is operated by his lover Annamaria. The Miners in the immediate area work for Dillon.

Out of town, you have various other mine owners (Simons, Harrison, and Kraus) and a few ranchers and farmers over in the Valleys below Kingdom Come. The Ranchers prefer Paradise, the tiny town the mine owner consortium run. (Farmers are along for the ride.)

The main competitor of Dillon is Marcus West, part owner and manager of the Pacific Lumber Company. They own the rights to the wood in these mountains. He has a lumber mill by the river (such that it is).

A surveyor with the Central Pacific is in the area. Mr. Jones is here to decide the route, putting a train through Kingdom Come, Paradise, or somewhere else (like near the mill).

Things come to a head as the various factions compete for the railroad station.

58) The Snake Oil Salesman comes to town.

Actually this is a good one, Dr. Victor's Elixirs are actually medicine not just alcohol. Yes, they are cheaply made, but they are somewhat effective. Everyone in the territory knows they are "good medicine" and he has other medicines and supplies for barbers and families, so everyone looks forward to Dr Victor stopping around.

However, Farmer Howard Jones lost his family to fever recently and The Good Doctor's Medicine didn't save them. He bought a six shooter a bit ago. It was odd for him, but not illegal. He is just biding his time. He is out to punish Dr. Victor with a dose of vengeance.

59) A lawman adventure
It was a quiet day like any other when... a fancy stage coach arrives into town. All its occupants (a wealthy Austrian aristocrat, his wife and their butler/driver) are in their underwear. They claim they were robbed by the infamous Scarecrow gang who got away with a large amount of cash and jewellery. A closer investigation will reveal there was no such robbery. These are con men, looking to prey on the starstruck townsfolk.
Turns out... the real Scarecrows aren’t too happy about taking the blame for crimes they did not commit and they come to town seeking revenge.

60) An outlaw adventure
After a night of revels, the gang meets to discuss... a request from an old friend. A legendary outlaw recently died in prison but not before revealing the location of his cache of stolen gold to his estranged daughter. It is buried in an abandoned church in an old ghost town. The friend asks the outlaws to help the innocent, young lady recover the gold in exchange for a share of the loot, bearing in mind that other interested parties may be keeping tabs on her.
Turns out... the ghost town isn’t a ghost town any more. People have returned and brought it back to life. Getting the gold unnoticed will be a lot harder than anticipated.

A prairie fire has scorched a broad stretch of land north of the town - along the normal route for cattle drives - and a cowpoke who got fired off an approaching cattle drive has just ridden into town with news. He says his ex-boss is detouring a herd of nearly two thousand head south of the expected route - which will take them straight through the town's painstakingly cleared and tended fields. A posse of angry armed farmers are fixin' to intercept the herd at night and stampede them back north.

Is this true, or is the disgruntled cowpoke stirring up trouble to get back at his former employer? He was thrown off the job hundreds of miles from home, and the cowboys driving the cattle don't get paid until they're sold at the railhead, so his pockets are empty. And what did he do to get treated so harshly?
 
62) A wagon train of settlers moving farther west are passing by, not far from your town. (They are very off the trail) Do we help them get back on path? They may not make it to the mountains in time (before fall and the snows). Do they camp here or do we move them on to someone else's problem?
 
63) Auguste Bartholdi on a tour to gather money to build the Statue of Liberty (taken from a french comic book).

64) A Texas Ranger and a Mountie are bringing in a notorious criminal back to the Canadian Territories to stand (or swing) for Justice. (That man nearly reached Mexico.) They are using the local jail to hold him while their horses get reshod and their wagon repaired.

However, per the telegraph, The man's Gang committed some crimes north of here. Do they stay or do you make them go?
 
65) Something in the wilderness is killing people, and taking trophies from the bodies, drawn to the violence of the Old West.

Something invisible.

66) A dark stranger likes to meet people at crossroads, to make deals. Could be supernatural, could be mundane.

67) A roving lawman likes to spread terror among outlaws, arriving only at night and concealing his identity with a skull mask.

68) A local mine is clearly cursed. Not radioactive at all.

69) Extry, extry! A young muckraker has arrived in town, looking for their first real scoop! Unfortunately, they're a bit TOO good, and they're inadvertently unearthing old grudges, and now the whole town is as twitchy as a dog's leg!

70) An infamous, retired gunslinger has be living quietly in under a false name in a sleepy frontier town, out of sight of his many enemies and rivals. Haven fallen on tough times, he's forced to sell his trademarke brace of guns. Will his identity be exposed now and what trouble will that bring to town?

71) It seems that a whole congregation of some odd church has settled in on the old Malcolm Ranch. After Mr. Malcolm went to the gallows, it fell to his son who was back East. Now he and a couple of dozen people from back East are turning the old ranch into a huge set of farms and a small ranch. They don't talk much to any of us in town. Their neighbors say they are doing some odd things. Now, Jaime Wilkines has gone missing. Jaime was not one for the wilds. We need to search every house including the people out at Malcolm.

72) Ten days ago, the chuck wagon went up in flame (or supply mule is lost to the river crossing). The Cow Pokes have a couple of more days until they reach a town (that they know of). Do they drive the cattle towards this town? Do they crush through some farming areas and get what they want. Are they going to be polite about it or just take what they need? Do they abandon the cattle? (Do they kill they guy in charge, who is responsible for the supply issue?) Your town may be closer. Does the town sheriff or people feel like they need to charge crimes to anyone?
 
73) The daughter (or one of the wives) of a powerful Mormon polygamist has run off with a dashing US Cavalry officer. "Destroying angels" are in hot pursuit.
 
74) A Geologist looking to explore mineral wealth seeks guards/trail hands for a trip deep into Indian territory. He's going to want to go into some very dangerous places, but he pays well, is respectful of other's expertise.

75) as 74, but he wants a rival's expedition sabotaged either to discredit them or to steal their work.

76) as 74 but he has failed to disclose that he is target bandits and outlaws in the pay of 75...
 
77) A writer from back East has come to the West (and the town) looking for authentic western stories. A couple of people spun some tales that were more fish story than truth.

Someone comes to town. The writer pushes some of those people to "do the right thing" (and live up to their spun tales). What do they do now?
 
78). Ancient Indian tribe of troglodytes raid a jailhouse and kidnap a roving hustler and a caring doctor. They leave behind a Bone Tomahawk.
 
79) A travelling entertainment show is coming through (because you have a railroad or are just off it). Not quite a travelling circus (Barnum and Bailey haven't quite put that all together), but a combination of singers, dancers, acrobats, and a juggling bear.

A) Someone is going to get killed. Let it be one of the song birds and hunt down the perp before the Travelling show folk tear up the town looking.

b) Someone is killed and we are holding an entertainer (who nobody will believe is innocent). Now you have to stop the entertainers from breaking him out just before the train comes.

80) Party runs into an outlaw who resembles an acquaintance and wonders whether they've been associated with an outlaw or not.

81) The Kendall brothers inherited their father's drug store and fell out after a bitter argument about the disputed Tilden-Hayes election of 1876. Now the town has two rival establishments: Jas. Kendall & Sons and Kendall & Co. With the incredible popularity of that new confection the ice cream soda, Dudley Kendall is making a killing with his imported 11' soda fountain of Mexican onyx, and a selection of 16 different syrups (source). His estranged brother Montgomery is prepared to dramatically overreact.

The rival pharmacists will offer top dollar to anyone who will sabotage, steal, or discredit the other. An assortment of local hooligans will form around each faction, gradually escalating to open violence, to the Kendalls' horror. Each brother has political connections as well. Dudley is a staunch supporter of the faction that controls the state/territorial government, while Montgomery draws a lot of water with  faction that runs the town. State and local lawmen withell each try to assert jurisdiction and harass the other side.

Whoever the PCs side with or against, they'll wind up making enemies. The right people can make chaos very profitable, though.

82) The Silver fields or mines not to far off have been played out. We have a bunch of ex-miners or drifters coming this way. Some are heading towards the next set of strikes and you are "on the way". Some are just following the crowd and are hanging about not quite wanting to head on to this new strike (which isn't much of anything). Thus you have new people in town, some are okay and some are squat poor.